Mwah!
Okay, I’ve fed you.
Now, who’s ready to watch
some basketball?
Why am I looking at you?
I don’t know.
Unlike you, I don’t need a
reason to watch a bunch of guys
run around in shorts.
Don’t ruin this for me
like you did with
Olympic diving.
- Cam?
- Recording it.
Mitch and I are taking Alex
and Manny to an art exhibit.
But, of course, everybody
is welcome to join.
It’s a retrospective on
postwar abstract expressionism.
- Wait. For school?
- No, for life.
Oh, thank God.
I don’t even know who
we fought in the postwar.
Told you
one car was enough.
[ Sighs ]
Looks like it’s just
the two amigos.
Haley?
Oh, sorry to brunch and bail,
Grandpa, but I’ve got a date.
- Uh, with whom?
- A gorgeous guy
I met at school.
Ooh, goes there
or cleans there?
Mom.
- Answer the question.
- So everyone’s leaving?
No, I’m– I’m not.
I wish I had known this
before I served the good bacon.
You did not serve
the good bacon.
- Shh! Don’t you have
a tiny dress to buy?
- [ Squeals ] Yes, we do!
We asked Gloria
to take Lily to pick out
her flower girl dress.
Yeah.
We’re clearly not following
every wedding tradition,
but there will damn sure
be one dress the grooms
don’t see until the big day.
And we also asked Claire
to go because we thought
her sensible style...
nicely complements
Gloria’s flair.
That way Lily doesn’t
end up looking too–
♪♪ [ Humming
"La Cucaracha" ]
Or too–
[ Imitating Trombone ]
♪ Wah-wah ♪
♪ Hey, hey ♪
♪ Hey ♪♪
[ Cooing ]
There’s my boy.
I know you’re talking to Joe,
but that still feels
really good to hear.
Okay, clocking out.
Ch-Ch– Boop!
You know, Andy, if you want,
you can stay and watch the game.
Otherwise, I’ll just
be here by myself.
I’m right here.
I’d love to, Mr. P.,
but I gotta come up with
an anniversary gift
for my girlfriend.
I make her something
different every year,
like a scrapbook
or a nice scarf.
This year, I was thinking
maybe I could bake her
some banana bread.
Oh, I am the king of banana
bread.
You know my secret? No nuts.
Not such a secret.
I used to make stuff
for Claire all the time.
Pretty sure my artistry
is what locked her down.
I got to make
this year special.
With her in the coast guard,
I, like, hardly ever
get to see her.
Well, this is just off the dome,
but, uh, maybe send her
a fun video?
Ooh. She does love
Rock of Ages.
Or you could make your own
video–
something romantic and personal
with real production value.
I got some pretty choice
equipment back at the house.
- I’d be happy to help.
- Would you really?
- Yeah!
- Yes!
Great! Let’s do it!
Luke, buddy,
I’ll pick you up later.
We can go check out some wheels.
I thought you were gonna
stay and watch the game.
I knew you loved me.
Oh, get out!
Come on.
Wheels?
What, are you looking
at cars already?
Pottery wheels. I have to
pick a spring elective,
and Dad thinks I should
take ceramics ’cause lots
of girls do.
You know what a lot
of girls don’t do?
Guys who take
ceramics.
You got a wood shop
at your school?
I can’t really build stuff.
I mostly take apart
and apologize.
You gotta know
how to build things.
I can build suspense.
How?
Well, get this.
- Huh?
- Garage. Now.
What’s a bridal store?
It’s a place with
the most wonderful dresses
that you have ever seen.
We’re gonna get you
the perfect one...
even if it take us all day.
[ Lily ]
Found it.
Oh, no, sweetie.
That’s a costume.
You can’t wear a costume
to a wedding.
Why not?
Belle was a princess.
She faced the Beast.
She stood up
to the townspeople.
What have you done?
I... got us into that
tiny, little parking spot.
Princess dresses are not
the only pretty dresses.
I want to be a princess.
I want to be a princess!
Stop that right now.
Your dads want you to have
a flower girl dress,
and that’s what
we’re going to get you.
So march.
It was marked "compact," and
we’re driving a minivan, so–
[ Alex ] Hey, thanks
for inviting us to this.
Oh, no problem.
You know, I’m surprised that
this particular foursome...
doesn’t hang out more often,
considering–
We’re the cultured ones
in the family?
I wouldn’t say that...
outside this group.
[ Laughing ]
Did you know your father
actually goes to the grocery
store to buy books?
I did know that, yeah.
I also know that
the best way to get my sister
to fall asleep is to–
Show her a movie
with subtitles.
Bonne nuit, Maman.
We should be nice and grateful
that we have this day
to spend together...
in our own private salon.
Don’t tell my mom that.
She’ll show up and ask
to get her roots done.
Manny!
That’s true though.
Thanks, Manny.
I am so excited
for this exhibit.
I’m such an admirer
of Kandinsky.
You know, he was credited
with painting the first
truly abstract work.
Is that so?
Mm-hmm.
To be honest, I was
a little nervous about holding
my own with those three,
so– [ Pops Lips ]
I did a little boning up
on Kandinsky.
Figured it couldn’t hurt
to have a few facts
in my pocket.
My backup plan
was to touch a painting
and get thrown out.
Yes, hi. Excuse me.
Can you tell us where
the Kandinsky exhibit is?
You know, Wassily Kandinsky?
Born in Moscow?
Son of a tea merchant.
I’m sorry.
That exhibit was temporary.
It’s closed.
What? No.
Oh, I love this Matisse.
You know, this is one
of his final works.
His failing health
led to his exploration
of paper cutouts.
Ah, yes.
I believe he called it
"painting with scissors."
And he was also
a contemporary
of Picasso.
You can definitely see
how they influenced each other.
Right, Cam?
Huh? Uh, well, you know,
it really reminds me...
of, uh, Kandinsky.
How so?
Well, not so much in look,
more in texture.
No, Cam!
No, please, sir,
don’t touch the art.
Sorry. I’ll leave
the premises.
No, it’s– it’s fine.
Just take a few steps back.
Beth, I would swim the deepest,
sharkiest oceans to be with you.
What are you doing?
[ Phil ]
Cut!
Well, now we have
a blooper reel.
We’re making a video love letter
for Andy’s girlfriend.
Your dad uses his computer
to put in
cool backgrounds...
while I act out all
the things that I would do
to be with her,
like swim an ocean
or climb a mountain.
Ooh, how about you buy
a plane ticket and visit her
like a normal person?
I would, but the coast guard
keeps her really busy.
Eyes. Does she like it?
She’s probably so lonely with
only two other women to talk to
in her whole 40-person unit.
So you’re saying
it’s just your girlfriend
and 36 super-in-shape dudes?
Thirty-seven.
And it’s not what you think.
The coast guard
seriously frowns
on fraternizing.
- It’s forbidden.
- Oh. That doesn’t
make it hot.
I got some on your face.
You’re gonna shine. I’ll go get
some of my– Claire’s powder.
My Claire.
She’s my wife.
I thought you had
a date to go on.
I do.
- When’s he gonna get here?
- Whenever he does.
He’s just, like,
a few minutes late.
[ Sighs ]
I’m sorry.
That is so rude.
A real man would be more
considerate of your time.
You’re right.
That’s why every year
People magazine names
the consideratest man alive.
[ Laughs ]
Oh, man. You can make fun
of me all you want,
but when you grow up,
you’ll see what qualities
make up a real man.
[ Phil ]
Someone say "makeup"?
I did.
[ Chuckles ]
All right.
Here we go.
Oh, yeah. Much better.
You know what? I think
I’m gonna shadow down here.
[ Claire ]
Gloria, you are gonna
love this one.
I think we have finally
found the perfect dress.
[ Unenthusiastically ]
Ta-da.
It’s nice,
but I don’t like the bow.
Let’s try more.
We’ve tried on
six dresses already.
She’s fine with this.
Right, Lily?
I don’t care.
See? She loves it.
Done.
Go try the lace one.
Seriously?
This is endless.
Why are you
dragging this out?
’Cause we haven’t found
the right dress.
You have got to be
a better shopper than this.
I have seen you buy three
outfits while driving a car.
Come on. It’s fun.
I don’t have any daughters.
All I get to buy is tuxedos,
and they all look the same.
But don’t tell Manny that
because I don’t want to hear
another lecture.
It’s funny.
I have never cared about
any of this stuff.
I didn’t even
wear a wedding dress
when I married Phil.
- Never even tried one on.
- [ Gasps ]
Easy. That is the reaction
for when there’s a man
behind me with a gun.
All I said is
I don’t care about
wedding dresses.
Because you’ve never
been in one.
- I’m gonna pick some
for you to try.
- Okay, no, no.
- No need. Mm-mmm.
- Come on.
You’ll feel beautiful.
Then you can go back
to your... boy clothes.
Hey.
Bought this shirt for Luke,
and I couldn’t return it.
And I don’t have all day
to try on dresses.
[ Lily ]
Oh, and I do?
It’ll be fun for me.
You’re my stepdaughter.
I’m older than you.
You see?
It’s already fun.
We’re gonna start
by building a simple toolbox.
First, I’m gonna show you
how to cut the wood.
I know you’re a little young
for this, goober.
Try to soak it all up.
What is this thing?
Table vise.
[ "Edelweiss" Melody ]
♪ Table vise, ta– ♪
No. I already went through
this with Mitchell.
That’s what we’re here
to prevent.
Didn’t your dad teach you
any of this stuff?
He says
the only tool you need
is a sense of humor.
’Cause who needs
the Jaws of Life if you have
a good knock-knock joke?
Luke, grab the goggles
over there, please.
And try to pay attention.
We measure twice,
and we cut once.
Hey, Grandpa,
can you bench 180 pounds?
I just said pay attention.
And that’s actually 205
with the bar.
I’ll lift that
for you later.
I can see you’re not
gonna let up about that.
Eh, I’m okay.
Spot me. Now, if
this thing goes south,
I want you to call 911...
and tell Joe his old man
died as he lived–
saving a trainload
of people.
[ Grunts,
Inhaling, Exhaling ]
All right.
That’s enough for now.
[ Chuckles ]
Whoa.
Tell me everything
you know about women.
[ Laughing ]
[ Speaks French ]
[ Laughs ]
Yeah, that last thing.
Funny. Funny.
Funny. I must be
a little behind you guys.
His words.
[ Laughs ]
Do you feel
what’s happening here?
I feel pinching.
No. I’m the weak link
of this super group.
They know it and I know it.
It’s fine when we’re all
in a big group,
but once we’re
separated from the herd,
the hooves come out.
Don’t you mean "claws"?
Clawed animals don’t travel
in herds, Mitchell.
Packs, flocks and prides.
Why can’t we be on a farm?
I’d make you all look
like such idiots.
You know what?
I’m just gonna wait outside.
No. Cam, come on.
You’re being silly.
To be perfectly honest,
I-I really needed Cam to stay.
The minute he goes,
I’m the dumb one.
I-I took an art history class
once, but that was just to look
at naked Italian dudes, so–
Remember now,
you’re in subzero temperatures.
The only thing
keeping you warm is the heat
of your fiery passion.
And... go!
- My beautiful Beth–
- Colder!
My b-b-beautiful B-Beth.
Colder!
[ Sputtering ]
That’s too cold.
B-B-Beth!
Now we’re talking!
You’re so beautiful to me!
Yes!
Why am I so intent
on helping Andy?
I love filmmaking,
and I love love.
I guess you could say
I enjoy making love on film,
and now I don’t have to
do it by myself.
Beth, this is my long way
of saying I miss you.
This– Uh– You know,
this is weird. I don’t
really know where to look.
No, it’s not weird.
Just look deep into my eyes
and sweep me off my feet.
All right.
- Honey–
- Yeah, that’s weird.
It is. Yeah.
Haley, honey,
can you help us?
- I don’t think anyone can.
- Just let Andy hold you Officer
and a Gentleman style,
and I’ll superimpose
Beth’s face over yours
on the computer.
- That’s insane.
- I know. I can do
anything with this.
If she’s not comfortable–
You know what, guys?
This whole thing
is really sad and pathetic.
No girl wants a guy
that tries this hard.
If I got this video,
I’d call the police.
Some girls
actually like guys
who are nice to them.
Some girls like 36 of them.
- There’s 37 of them!
- Okay, this is passion.
We can use it.
Andy, pick her up.
All right. Let’s just
get this over with.
Oh, my gosh!
He’s actually
picking me up! Dad!
It’s just for a minute.
Now lock eyes, and... action.
Honey, this is my long way
of saying I miss you.
I don’t have to
climb a mountain
or swim an ocean...
to be with you,
because you’re always
with me–
in my thoughts,
my dreams, my heart.
You deserve more
than I could possibly
ever give you,
but everything I have
is yours.
I love you.
Cut!
That was beautiful.
I really felt that one.
Did you feel that one?
No, I didn’t feel anything.
- I was talking to Andy.
- I know! Put me down, freak!
Ugh!
Wow.
That really takes me back
to my cheerleading days.
[ Alex ] How could a guy
with so much pain
create such hopeful imagery?
I certainly couldn’t
paint like that if my mother
was dying of consumption.
The last time she had a cold,
I could barely arrange the
flowers on the front table.
You know what I found
so interesting?
Was that the first painting
and the last painting
were so similar,
and I think that that
was intentional, a comment on
the perpetual motion of life.
The first painting
was the last painting.
We walked in a circle.
- Are you sure?
- Yeah.
So, you know, I’m gonna
go check on Cam...
because he’s been alone
for quite some time.
[ Alex ] Mm-hmm.
And he’s probably
touching a painting.
No, don’t go!
We’re having such a good time!
I guess it’s just
you and me now.
It was okay when Cam left
and passed the dunce cap
to Mitchell,
but with him gone,
it went to me.
What I would’ve given
to have Luke there.
Ah, Luke. Sweet as custard
and just as smart.
And presto.
Thank you so much,
Mr. Dunphy.
I wish I could
repay you somehow.
Nah.
Next time you’re
with your girlfriend,
just think of me.
- Done.
- [ Car Horn Honks ]
Later.
Who’s that?
- My date.
- Your lunch date?
It’s 5:00.
He fell asleep.
But he texted me
right when he woke up.
Then you’d think
he’d be well-rested enough
to walk to the front door.
Yeah, a gentleman honks
to support the troops,
not summon his girlfriend.
Although my girlfriend
is a troop, so in my case,
it’s a little confusing.
Oh, my God.
It’s still talking.
Because it knows
you’re not being respected.
Thank you.
You bet.
Ugh. You guys don’t
understand how dating works
in the real world.
What are you talking about?
Look at everything Andy
did for Beth today.
I just live my life
to make her happy.
I’m gonna give this to the
mailman, who’s gonna give it
to the coast guard,
and by this time
tomorrow,
someone in the coast guard’s
gonna be giving it
to my girlfriend.
Can you imagine
the smile on her face
when she takes it all in?
Okay, I’m gonna go
while you two replay that
in your minds.
Oh, my gosh.
Would you like
to reenact Gravity?
Yes. Sandra Bullock!
Oh. Dang it!
Good call.
That was quick.
- Hey.
- "Hey"?
That’s what I get
after I waited for you
all afternoon?
Uh– You look good?
I know that.
You were supposed to
pick me up hours ago.
You were, like,
the first or second person
I texted after I woke up.
Oh! That’s so sweet.
Did it even occur to you
to come to the door?
[ Scoffs ]
Who comes to the door?
A gentleman.
Could you at least open
the car door for me?
- Now can we go?
- You know what?
Go take another nap.
I’d rather wait for someone
who’d walk through
a blizzard for me...
and only honks
to support the troops!
I don’t understand you.
Neither do I!
[ Unenthusiastically ]
Ta-da.
Claire, you look beautiful.
You’re glowing.
I’m not glowing.
I’m sweating.
Come on. Look at yourself
in the mirror.
Don’t tell me that you don’t
feel gorgeous and special.
Wow.
You’re right.
I am radiant.
Oh, it’s like I’m in a–
in a fairy tale or a dream.
Oh!
Lies!
[ Growls ]
You’re faking it.
I’m sorry!
Look who raised me.
I am my father’s daughter.
And also kind of his son.
And I lied about that
being Luke’s shirt.
I bought it for myself
in three colors.
I am trying to
help you out here, Gloria,
but this just isn’t me.
You did help me.
I am glad
I didn’t have daughters.
You know, at least
when I take Manny shopping,
we make a day of it.
I don’t even
have to ask him to twirl
because he just does it.
¡Vamos, Lily!
[ Sighs ]
Lily?
Is she– No.
No?
She’s gone.
Lily! Lily! Lily! Lily!
- No, the dress!
- [ Alarm Beeping ]
Lily?
Wait, wait,
wait, wait!
I can’t run
in these shoes!
I bet you wish
you had boy shoes now, huh?
Lily?
[ Breathing Heavily ]
Claire, stop!
What?
Look!
Oh, my God.
Okay, run, run.
Come on. Come on!
She looks so happy.
She does.
Oh, she really does.
They’re gonna kill us.
What sort of princess?
The kind
that dances with beasts
and won’t marry Gaston.
Really?
What?
It’s the only dress
she likes.
Lily wants to come
to the wedding as Belle.
Makes sense.
She went to Pepper’s seder
as Dora the Explorer.
- It’s fine.
- Are you sure?
Yes. Yes.
As long as she’s happy.
A gay wedding is hardly
the place to stop someone
from being who they want to be.
[ Beeps ]
- They said it’s fine.
- Yay! I’m finally happy!
Mmm!
[ Laughs ]
What?
I saw you twirl.
Oh, I did not.
Yes, you did.
Such a pretty girl.
Shut up.
You’re a girl.
How about
that daughter of ours?
She marches to the beat
of her own drum, huh?
Yeah. Exactly.
So why are we so concerned
what two nerdy teenagers
think of us?
Isn’t the true mark
of intelligence being able
to admit what you don’t know?
Shh. Here comes Manny.
Did he hear me?
I don’t think so.
Hey, guys.
Nothin’.
Hey, what are you
doing out here?
You guys invited us
so we could spend the day
together.
It felt wrong that you two
are out here and I was in there
all alone with Alex.
- Couldn’t keep up, could ya?
- She knows everything.
She made a docent cry.
It’s okay.
We’re faking it too.
Well, duh.
[ Alex ]
There you guys are.
Nothin’.
Uh, we were just
headed back in.
Yeah, I’m getting a second wind.
Oh, no, no, no.
That’s okay.
- What do you say we go
check out some food trucks?
- Really?
I’ll go back in
if you guys want,
but I’m actually really hungry.
- [ Manny ]
Yeah. Whatever you want.
- Whatever you need.
Thanks, guys.
If I’m being honest,
I had to get out of there.
I was exhausted from having
to dumb it down all day.
Really? The neck?
Yeah, a kiss on the neck
opens all kinds of doors.
Last one.
Great job, champ.
Who said you can’t
build anything?
My dad, the police, a doctor.
You got a gift.
Trust me. Take shop.
I think I’m gonna.
Hey, how’d you get to know
so much about everything?
From my dad, mostly.
He taught me how to use a drill,
change a tire,
fake an injury
when a buddy asks you
to help him move.
Everything a man needs
to get by.
I’m just glad I have someone
to pass it on to.
- You’ve got Manny.
- Mmm.
Manny came to me
kind of fully cooked.
And I was an idiot
with Mitchell,
and by the time this guy
gets old enough, who knows
how much I’ll remember?
These are my prime
wisdom-giving years.
You got any more
questions, Luke?
Just one–
Can I have a sip?
The beer? Sure.
What the hell.
Awesome. My first drink of beer.
I remember the day
I gave Mitchell
his first taste of beer.
He winced and carried on
like someone was digging
a bullet out of his leg.
I couldn’t take that moment
away from Phil.
Hang on.
Wait a second.
Let me see that.
[ Sniffs ]
No, this beer’s skunked.
It’s no good.
Damn fridge must be
on the fritz again.
Aw, man. Really?
Sorry, buddy.
It’s probably time to call
your dad anyway, right?
Okay.
Wait a second. I want
to give you something.
But those are yours.
What’s a grandfather for...
if he can’t give
his grandson
a couple of tools?
Thanks, Grandpa.
Good job.
Joe. I know you’re all
about the boobs right now,
but trust me– the neck.
[ Slowly ]
Don’t let go!
Don’t worry, George Clooney!
I won’t!
You’re too handsome!
Watch out
for incoming space junk!
From where?
Your zipper’s down.
[ Normal Voice ]
Oh, is it?
Yeah, it is. Just–
What’s Andy doing here?
They’re making a video
for his girlfriend.
Yeah? What’s it called,
Dorks in Space?
Oh, it was actually sweet.
It’s weird.
There’s something about him.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, he’s just like Dad.
Ew. Ew, ew!
In space, no one
can hear you scream.
What?
In space, no one
can hear you scream!
I can’t hear you!
In spa–
Oh, I just got it.
That’s good. That’s good.
Thank you.
[ Andy ]
That’s awesome.
There’s no denying
it is original,
but you can see
the influence
of Pollock.
While the pattern seems
haphazard and random,
it belies a purposefulness,
an intentionality.
You know, I think what I’m
responding to is the clashing
juxtaposition of color,
the bright yellow against
the dark background.
It’s like a ray of sunshine
in an otherwise bleak world.
If I may take
a contrary position–
I think it speaks to
the absurdity and folly
of human endeavor.
Mmm.
Like our futile struggle
for perfection.
I get it.
I got mustard on my shirt.
Get over it.
I know we’re joking, but all
kidding aside, it really does
remind me of Kandinsky’s–